Michael Tsarion and I have been trying to connect
for a couple of years now and I was thrilled
that our meeting finally took place.
Having followed his work
on Architects of Control on my radio show,
we decided to spend our time together
to talk about his newest books,
The Irish Origins of Civilization.
Michael contends that history, as it's been told,
has omitted a significant series of proofs
that not only did the highly advanced Egyptian Civilization
move to the west, to Britain, but prior to that
the ancient Druids moved to Egypt,
taking their language, arts, philosophy
and wisdom with them.
Their disappearance has caused cataclysmic events
to occur on this planet, according to Michael.
(gentle music)
Everywhere we look we're seeing structures
beginning to crack, even crumble
and I think it's becoming obvious that there are,
as the title of your film says,
there are architects in control of all of this
that's going on.
What are you seeing as the dominant effects
of the controllers right now?
Well, there's many threats.
There's, the first thing to realize
is the architecture of control is very ancient.
That never changes even though it progresses, you know.
People can say if they want from the historical ages
or if they prefer, like I do, to say it's even more ancient
than that.
Second thing is that the architects of control change
because, of course, some come, they die
and then the new generation springs up, you know.
So this thing is ever increasing
as new people are recruited into (mumbling).
The architects of control have a recruitment situation.
They have a bloodline we've spoken about before.
And also, it's not just that they may be
biologically descended from a strict bloodline.
I believe that does exist and I've written on it,
but there's also the situation, the question
of ideological identification,
which comes from the training,
you know, the influence of these people's parents.
You know, and the rest of the kind of rituals
that these people are subjected to and so forth and so on.
So people can focus on that, which then brings you to
individual members.
The Winston Churchills, the Margaret Thatchers,
you know, the Cecil Rhodeses, you know.
Then you're into sort of these individuals
and who can conceive what and when.
And some people may point to philosophers.
You know, people have pointed to Aristotle, Plato,
Nietzsche, you know, whether you agree with that or not.
Who are the people who conceived this conceptually?
You know, and we may agree or disagree on those.
Then we have the executors.
You know, who are much lower level
when it comes to the pyramid.
So we can always focus on those things.
But they're the ones
we tend to interface with and feel the presence
of more.
Yeah, so, in fact, it's good though
because then when you do expose some shenanigans
from an Alfred Milner, right,
or Colonel Mandell House
or Cecil Rhodes, people are more likely to believe you
because there it is in black and white.
And the same person can say,
"Well, bit dodgey there
"and there seems to be these underworld connections."
But the rest of it is really faceless,
nameless.
And more hard to prove.
These are people
that blend so far back that we can't ever see them,
they're so many layers back, right?
Right and also more difficult to prove.
As you step away from dealing with the architects
and start dealing with architecture,
you're a little bit more into the abstract.
You're a little bit more into areas
that is harder to prove for people.
Because at that point, you have to have
a certain kind of mind as well.
You have to have a very synergistic mind.
You have to have a very conceptual mind.
You have to be, to put it in layman's terms,
standing not too close to the great canvas of life
and not too far away.
What we're finding in these,
well you find this in every modality of thought,
but you certainly find it again
in the so-called Alternative Movement,
is that either people have got their face stuck
up into the canvas and going, "This is it.
"It's this color, okay? It's this."
They're too close.
"It's them. It's the Illuminati.
"It's the Jesuits." Whatever.
And they're right.
They can be right.
But their only looking at one little brush mark
or two little brush marks, right?
And then you got the other kind
who's standing too far away.
And then they don't know the specifics.
They go, "Yeah, I know there's a hidden government.
"Yeah, I get it, you know, so what?
"Change the channel.
"I'm gonna go and watch some football now."
Right? So you have to be standing
sort of at a certain, and a good artist does this anyway.
The man who's painting the picture had to do it,
why don't you?
Right, you painted a stroke or two,
you back up.
Oh, they know that Leonardo da Vinci visited
his own paintings for sometimes 14 hours a day
just to sit and look at it.
To, you know, stand close, to go far away.
This is what an artist does.
This is what an art critic does.
It's no different in life, so when you find,
and it takes time.
This can take years just to get to
the perspective I'm talking about,
can take years for people to just get that.
Because, you know, and it happened for me too.
Sometimes I was too close to the canvas
and you're like, you got this bug bear about one thing
and you think you've found it.
And you become sort of a little bit
obsessed by that or whatever.
Then you pull, there can be a swing
where you're pulled too far back
and then you kind of lose the detail,
but there's an upside of that
is that you start to see the global-ness
of this kind of thing, you know,
and you get familiar with the hues and the textures.
But as I said, coming back to your point,
when you start dealing with the architecture,
you need a synergistic mind
and there's not too many teachers
who can do that.
There's not too many people who can do that
so my slant now, after all these years,
has become more to yeah, keep on dealing with
the sort of practical examples,
but other people have done that wonderfully.
This is fantastically canvased, my god.
You know, I mean, from the time of the earliest writers
on conspiracy, G. Edward Giffin, Eustace Mullins,
you know, Gary Allen, you name it.
There's a whole list of these people.
And hope the viewers are familiar with these people.
And including David Icke and others
who are doing wonderful work on this.
This is beautifully done.
There's been case histories.
There's profiles.
These people have been exposed thoroughly.
We're talking even about the Queen of England
and all her coterie, and all of these,
you know, monstrosities.
At the same time, then it's good to sometimes say,
yeah, but this is very ancient,
to show the whole architectural.
So in the recent work, Irish Origins of Civilization
specifically, and I'm hoping to get into that more
because I want to actually make sure that people understand
why I'm even using the word Irish for a start.
Most people have said, "What?"
Yeah.
Just hearing that.
What, Irish origins?
The very word has to be defined
because it's not a travel guide,
heritage, Irish history context.
The word Irish is a very specific word
that most Irish people don't even know what it means.
But getting out of that, the idea is that the Irish book
was done again to take this thing back
to show the ideological connections
and to start showing how this thing began.
What's it all about? You know?
How does, 'cause if you're seeing something today,
a tyranny, a pestilence, some sort of pathogenic thing,
a mental epidemic or whatever,
that's infecting people and making them sociopathic
and fragmented, my god, if that, steamroller,
if that caboose is still moving,
it must've had one hell of an engine
or an impulse to move it in the first place.
And Jordan, Maxwell and I, we've always addressed
this thing about what is at the top of the pyramid?
You can't understand the bottom
unless you understand the top.
Who is operating from the top part?
And so the top part also has four sides.
So even that's not too easy to discover even then
'cause even one perspective is not good enough.
You gotta do some circum-numbulating here
and you'll get things wrong.
You're gonna get things wrong.
Because the sun, you know, the light
may not be right today
or emotions may color the thing.
Listening to a bunch of other voices
may interfere.
Not, the best way, you see, is,
and remember, not everyone has the same approach.
There's a different understanding of this.
Just like in the same way you can use the same words
and mean different things.
So the incredible thing is
that never to lose sight of the fact
that how ancient is this thing.
And what kind of impulse started it?
And then we're into the world of a solar cult.
Then we're back into the world of astrology
and astro theology.
We're going back to the roots of Christianity
and Judeo-Christianity.
Whether the people who are into those religions
accept this or not,
it's a bonafide effect that the stars, the heavens
was the original temple of God.
It's referenced in the Bible
multiple places in code.
The Bible is absolutely loaded with Druidic
symbolism, and then again, to even use the word Druidic,
we need to have that defined.
Is it the same as it's been presented?
Is it the same as what has been presented before?
You know, what does the word really mean?
Was it used in other countries?
Etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.
So just in the mere definition of names,
and this for me started way back in 1980,
that's how I got interested in it.
The mere looking at the deconstruction
of these terms that have been handed to us
in the media and the mainstream
was of great fascination to me personally.
I didn't have a big picture.
You're an etymologist really.
Well, I studied the etymologist and philologist, you know.
I'm not in any sense an academic expert
or anything like that.
But I don't think you have to be.
No, you've laid down
some really fine findings.
And I think these are all eclectic.
Just like language itself is ecelctic.
So is the study of language
and also I'm very against academic,
you know, all knowledge is free for all people.
It cannot be owned or territorialized
as the Orthodox, you know, university systems
want to do and the basic fact in my life,
you know, an academic is basically somebody
who's got like a, you know, university degree
on the front of their chest but a target on the back.
And they're comprised individuals.
So we have to question how really objective their work is.
That's not to say that the professor Thompsons,
you see, and others from within
haven't done wonderful work,
but then they lose their jobs.
They're demoted.
Even people at the top of the totem pole.
You know, I could list many, many great scholars
and still today
who are writing wonderful books
on the origins of Judaism
and the origins of all of this kind of thing,
who delving into this,
but they are, they risk.
You see, and they're gonna be a minority
right across the board.
You know, I mean, people screamed
about, you know, the Egyptians never used a ship
until they dig one up about five feet from the pyramid.
People said there was no such things (mumbling)
until they dig, you know, their scrolls up from the deserts.
You know, endless antidotes like this, you see.
So we're in the age now of this revision
of history and that includes the revision of words,
the revision of language, the revision or terms,
the revision of symbolism.
And almost everything we've been taught
right across the board.
We're not looking for experts.
We're not looking for authorities.
We're looking for people who've got that eclectic synthetic
omnidirectional mind, you see,
that can start to be okay with a deconstructive model.
Don't worry about what's gonna come out of it.
Let the old system, you know, take it apart.
This is what the Uranian energy is also about.
It's sort of fragmenting of everything to take it apart,
to examine what it is.
Open the shell, let's see what this is made of really.
What's its components.
And if we don't need it anymore, throw it out.
Course that threatens a lot of people.
But to finish up, you know, on the first point,
basically, then you're into the solar cult.
You're going back to the fundamentals of religion.
You're going back to the fundamentals of communication,
cosmology, thinking, thought,
the zodiac and the inner zodiac.
You're going back to the reasons why
man thought it was important to erect pillars,
obelisks, why they made the megaliths,.
The relationship with, you know, the cosmoths
was a relationship with the mother.
You know, the divine mother, the presence
that they never lost contact with.
With nature, which is the ultimate guide.
Which is the ultimate teacher and tutor, you see.
So you're going back to all of that,
which today is looked at as sort of a primitivism.
Paganism.
Paganism, you know, not understanding, as I said,
the Bible's full of it, you know.
I can take you through chapter and verse
to show you the Druidic (mumbling) motifs in there.
The average Christian doesn't know it
well 'cause the average Christian doesn't study Druidism.
My work will introduce them to that
then they can see it for themselves.
I'm not making a story up here.
The harp, the tree, the oak, the fig leaf, you know.
The man in white robes, right.
Meeting Jehovah at the burning bush,
etcetera, etcetera, etcetera
are actually from a particular (mumbling).
They're actually from a particular archive,
not the Judaic archive as we know it
and not the Christian archive as we know it.
So this opens up a whole fascinating study.
Well let's just jump into that can of worms
because it's often thought, well,
we go beyond the Christian era.
We go back into the Egyptian eras
and some of the more ancient Egyptian civilizations,
even into Samarian, Babylonian and so forth.
And so it's been thought up to this point
that there was a migration, right?
From the East
Right.
or Southeast to the Northwest.
To Ireland and that Ireland, a lot of what Ireland's
more advanced civilization from ancient times displaced
really came from somewhere else.
But you're saying it's exactly the opposite.
Both, ultimately it's the opposite,
but let's just take it in steps.
Yes there was East to West migrations,
but they were later.
Yes, and let's get into that.
That's a very important distinction
that is not being made anywhere (mumbling).
Yeah, and let's just look at not my work,
but other works, the Graham Hancocks,
the Michael Cremos and before them
you even have the Eric (mumbling).
The cat is out of the bag proving
that obviously our history does not open
7,000 years ago or even 11,000 years ago.
In Christianity, they said that the entire creation
was 4,000 years old.
Yeah.
That's what I'm talking about.
That kind of bogus nonsense is in the science world
telling you that it all, history traditionally opened
because some baskets were found
or the first numerical system
is been completely demolished.
You know, by people who even are going takin'
photographs of it under water and what not
to show you that this is nonsense.
Of course any sane man knows.
Such as Graham
Hancock.
Such as Graham Hancock.
And therefore, but any sane man
even before their work would've known this.
And many have.
Okay, let's go from there.
The reason why they wanted an ice age
inserted between, you know, the Holocene and the Pleistocene
or the Pleistocene Epoch, if you really want
to be technical about it,
they insert this thing with ice ages
between the post and pre diluvian.
Why they wanted to make sure that history
began at the seven to 11,000 years ago
is for a very good reasons, propaganda.
Is to make sure that nobody who is born later today
or in the modern age will look back.
If you put this ice sheet there,
if you put this naked world there,
if you put this world and cataclysm there.
No history.
Wooly mammoths and all that, no history.
No reason to look back.
It's exactly the same, and I mean exactly the same
as when the Vatican said, "Well, you can't be sailing ships
"to the west of the world
"because you're gonna fall of the edge."
There is no difference--
Scared a lot of young kids
with an exploring spirit.
At that point they would've said anything
and they did.
The Western Isles were always considered the goulish
other worldly, misty isles and people believed this
right up to the time of Galileo and even beyond.
And think actually have (mumbling)
who still believe it today.
Alright, so the thing is that that worked
to stop people physically going there
because they knew man of finances, man of money
might independently get ships and go and find out
what the real story is.
So the Vatican made an all out prohibition on that
by saying that the world was flat.
The thinkers did it historically by saying,
"Well, it's flat.
"There's no history before x."
And anyway, half the world, three quarters
was a bunch of pygmies and primatives
so we don't even need to worry about them.
They're gonna be conquered and colonized
and they don't have a history.
And if they do, we'll wipe it off
so same result.
Western man, European man,
he's got the history.
He's the big kahuna, right?
So all of these mechanisms plus the more subtle
diachronic and synchronic manipulation of time
and history, the Hegelian , you know, Dialectical pattern,
if you want to get into that,
there's all these various forms
that these agents, all of the aristocracy,
the (mumbling) have used to prevent
man looking back to these,
in other words, the true history.
What were they afraid of?
What were they going to find?
Well, let's go straight on then to the next step.
This idea that I've worked with a lot,
which is the opposite as you were talking about.
The movement of the elements of civilization
from the Western, Northwestern hemisphere
to the East.
I'm not the first.
This was, first it was a woman
by the name Anna Wilkes in 1889
who wrote a book, you know, on this.
Then followed up by the great Conor MacDari.
And then Comyns Beaumont in the 1960's.
And you have a lot of references in your book.
Yeah, basically, my work is as I consider
little more than a homage to them.
You know, okay, somebody might say
you know, these are your own ideas.
And I guess they are my own ideas there.
Ultimately, the books were written,
in fact, my happiest experience was writing the chapter
on Comyns Beaumont.
It felt like to me it was a great,
I actually really don't even want to get into it.
It's a very personal thing
to even be able to do that chapter on that man
it was like a period at the end of a sentence for me.
You know? That's all I can say.
But yeah, to do homage to the other ones as well
was really great and to my own ancestors ultimately.
You know, the book is dedicated
to the spirit of the ancestors, you know,
in my own land, as sort of an homage
that I lived in that land.
I was born there, you know.
So it's my way of giving something back.
It is polemical.
It is rebellious.
It's meant to be.
You know, one of my--
But that's the nature of the Irish people.
Isn't that part of the spirit?
Absolutely.
And one of my Irish mentors,
Patrick McGoohan, you know,
when he was asked about the making of The Prisoner,
he goes, "I wanted fists up in my face."
So basically, that's, you know
You put some
the way I look at it
fists up here on this one
and you're talking, you, okay,
just continue what you'r saying
because we can jump into this story
at so many points.
You tell it.
Well just briefly
then, the idea that just a take on board the fact
that what is so difficult
to go out your garden gate
and make a right?
If you can make a right you can make a left.
So what is the big problem, the big obstacle
with realizing that it might've been the other way?
And remember, we're not talking about racial movement.
People (mumbling), "What about the races and all?"
Where did you ever get that?
I never talked anything about race.
I talked about the elements of civilization
which are completely separate from the question of races.
This is not a racial matter, racial superiority.
And when we get into the analysis for the word Arian
we must hit on this.
Yes.
I have that
on the top of the list here
Because that's a
huge, you know, and again, we'll find out why
that's been so misappropriated.
So the elements of civilization is basket weaving,
mathematical concepts and music, you know,
design, hair braiding.
They found them in the Tarim basins.
The only place you find those braids is in Denmark.
Explain it if you can, right?
The coloring of the hair, the using of the lime,
the tartan, the horses, the burials, the positioning,
the mound features.
It's Western, you can either accept it or you can't.
We're not trying to ram it down anybody's throats.
It's a fact and the anthropologists know it.
But upstairs says don't publish it.
You're not gonna talk about it.
Come up with some other bogus explanation
etcetera.
So why?
Well, because remember you're dealing with,
well let's cut to the chase with that then.
Anyone watching this who is absolutely convinced
that there is a world,
architecture of control, right,
and is lamenting it and looking to understand
why it rolls, must understand this next point
very, very, they must listen with all their mind
to this next point.
None of that architecture of tyranny,
none of the genecidal psychopathy
or any of that poison that the black lodge
has created down through the centuries could exist,
none of it
if the original people that I address,
namely the Maggi, the Elders the Druids, existed.
This brings up two points.
One is that all these lodges, Masonic lodges,
(mumbling) lodges and all the rest of it,
all the elites today, everything they had
is a cannibalization and a plagarization
of those Elders.
That's one, number one.
And two, had those Elders still been allowed to exist,
the other could not exist.
Because that school of light, that college of light
was vigilant to this pestilence.
They had rights.
They had Shamanic rights.
They had the Wicca, right.
They had the whole Shamanic matrix
to make sure that a certain child ain't going anywhere
if they're toxic.
To the point that they'd even, as we know,
leave them out to die.
That's been overly exaggerated, of course,
but the idea was okay, if nature has created
some rotten fruit, rotten fruit grows on a tree.
It's quite natural to let that rotten fruit fall and die
and perish so it doesn't destroy the whole crop or whatever.
And these Druids, these Elders, these Matriarchs understood
that this is also a law.
There is a catabolic force that you must honor also.
And therefore, by not letting the creme,
by not letting the scum rise to the top,
as these fraternities now not only permit but--
Promote.
Promote, right?
They did the opposite.
The Druidic colleges did the opposite.
They made sure that the scum stayed
cleaning the floors and doing whatever they needed to do
and that only the pure rose to the top.
So when these people bash Plato and bash the philosopher
kings, you know, they're coming from a very, very limited
state of understanding.
The original principal of Plato and his philosopher kings
was not totalitarian control as Fabian left-wing
people in the universities are trying to tell you that
when we ask who's teaching Plato.
You know, if we wanted to get into that.
But the point is that none of these platonic people
were pushing any type of totalitarian new world order.
What they were showing you is if the man
who has his inner republic and harmony, he can rule.
He will not be a tyrant because he doesn't,
he's not working with tyranny.
In fact, his job is to filtrate tyranny.
He's the meter for your tyranny.
The very people who are bashing this concept,
what, you're supporting the world we have now then?
Yeah.
Could it be any worse?
Which is the antithesis of that--
It's the antithesis of it, right.
So anyway, back to the main point, the thing is that
so the new order, the black lodge,
that's subsequently, in Ireland's history
it's about 500 B.C. that the problems began.
That group that now builded, has built the universities,
has created the literature, who funds the intellectuals
and funds the histories,
this whole organism, this whole pathogen
could simply not exist if the other existed.
And I don't care if it's the Indian Aryan version,
the Chaldean version, the Samarian version,
you know, the (mumbling)-Keltic
and then the Gaelic,
wherever the mystery school teachers were.
As long as they existed, there's no chance
for this reprobate version to exist.
That is why, that is the ultimate reason
for the campaign of genocide.
I dealt with a campaign of genocide
in a slightly different context in the Atlantis book,
you know, which also dealt with the Irish thing.
It's developed much more in the Irish Origins book.
But there's a reason for it.
And then secondly, you may destroy the root,
but that doesn't mean you haven't abused the fruit.
Right.
So just, they all had their baskets ready
for the teachings, the principles, the astrology,
the astro theology, the astronomy.
All of these principles that was garnered
over thousands of centuries.
In other words, the building of the stone megaliths,
how they could align that, you know,
everyone knows, "How did they do it."
You know, where did the (mumbling) stages come
for these mathematical concepts or these great tools
or the building of the pyramid?
They're trying to tell you from out of nowhere?
This was the fact that our earth civilizations
existed longer.
The proof is right there.
I don't know why it's taking people so long
to understand this.
You know, even a school child can't just do calculus
right away.
There's a antecedent steps.
Cannot be any different with a civilization.
So the idea is that there's being
a whole side genocide of those people.
The people who studied the witch hunts
of the dark ages understand exactly what I'm saying.
I'm not saying anything different
than what happened to the Huguenots,
what happened to the Wicca,
what's happened to, you know, many races
throughout even recent periods.
Except what, you know my concentrating on ancient,
ancient history.
And of equal or secondary importance
is the fact of the cannibalization or their (mumbling)
and that's where the elements of our civilization
now appear, the architectural motifs,
the design of cities.
The symbolism of all of the above.
Done with no carrying none of the wisdom
or knowledge forth with it.
No, it's a cannibalization of that
and so this is then rebounds back to the question
of those who are maybe getting into a little critiquing
of this.
They are critiquing.
If you don't like a piano player's rendition
of a piece of Chopin, don't blame Chopin.
If you don't like what Edward Bernays did,
don't blame Freud.
If you don't like what Annie Besant did,
don't blame Blavatsky.
It makes me cry
that we have this kind of low level of intelligence.
Right, at this point because the research isn't there.
What we have today is the cannibalization
of all these ancient traditions.
Don't blame the Druids.
Don't blame the man who created that
for the good of all humanity, alright.
Blame those who've cannibalized it.
A lot of these (mumbling) were done for reasons.
The Druids would do it for reasons, you know,
why certain megaliths were put here.
Why certain structures were put there.
There was also a healing of the earth going on.
It really helps to remember
that the application is very important.
There's two forms of application
of this nosis.
There's the application of the purist who created it
and then there's the subverse of, or subverted, you know,
use application of the later black lodge.
And that's very powerful,
to have something that can be misconstrued
and then passed on as truth
when it has some essential beauty and truth in it
is easy to sell.
But do you see that it's because it has beauty in it
that it's subconsciously attractive to most people
even today?
Absolutely,
that's what I'm saying.
Because it has those constituents,
people will buy it.
So I can see the problem.
If you have that amount of beauty and truth
embedded in something that has been co-opted
for perhaps even a reverse purpose,
you know, a purpose antithetical to that,
how are we to feel the difference
when we're essentially connecting with that original
truth and beauty?
I mean, the possibility for disinformation, misinformation
and misalignment is unbelievable.
How are we to know the truth anymore?
Well, let's take the same point
up to the metaphysical level.
What is evil?
Evil does not have anything of its own.
It's negation.
Evil only exists or (mumbling)
is the violation of something that was originally
good or positive or wholesome or holistic.
If it can subvert, skew, change, morph, you know,
modify, somewhat contaminate or corrupt
that which is positive,
then you have a definition of evil.
That's what, of it's own it has no power at all.
This connects a lot with the root of my optimism
is because evil by its very definition
is telling nature come and get me.
Anything that lives in violation of nature's ordinances
is raising a red flag going, I shouldn't exist.
And nature, in its own sweet time, will take care of it.
So you know, like people who get really pessimistic
and down about what's going on,
my message to them is don't you see
that evil has within it the seed of its own destruction?
Now people who have read the last chapter
of my Atlantis book know that I've already gone into this,
but it needs to be repeated time and time again.
Repeat it.
Evil is, contains within it the seed
of its own annihilation.
It is not something that is sustainable.
Even though, you know, we may--
Because it's going against all principles
and nature of life.
Right, and nature's in perfect order, perfect balance.
The Egyptians always showed that as the feather
of the goddess (mumbling) and the great scale of life.
Right, it's incredible metaphor.
And other cultures have used various metaphors
for this homeostasis or this balance or this equilibrium.
And this order is invalid.
In fact, some of the Shamanic groups talk about
the fact that man's probing into, you know,
the subatomic as he's probing into the physical.
His insecurity, he needs to control mother nature.
He needs to oppress it.
He needs to organize it, you know.
He needs to understand it, dissect it, you know.
Lenard Shlain, who sadly passed away recently,
wrote Alphabet Verses the Goddess
and Art and Physics.
These great books that meditate on thse ideas
about what is this phallic or ithyphallic,
you know, need to dissect, you know,
the old (mumbling) paradigm.
This is because man, this kind of thinking,
this yang modality, this inquisitive masculine mindset
is insecure and it cannot turn itself on
to understanding what that miracle of life is all about.
In other words, just like people like Ken Wilbur
have examined and even, you know, Michael Talbot
and The Holographic Universe paradigm.
The psychopath cannot see holarchy,
not even if you pointed it out to him.
They'll go, "But it's hierarchy."
No, it's holarchy.
"No, no, no it's hierarchy, look, can't you see?"
So it's like some sort of twilight zone situation
and which even if it's in front of them,
they're not seeing what you're seeing.
And in fact, I've even gone so far as to say
it's a definition of psychopathy is hierarchy.
So all the structures that the brotherhood,
the dark lodge create, are hierarchical
because they're based on psychopathy.
Now The Architects of Control, dvd series that we're doing
is an examination of what that is.
It's not bashing technology.
It's saying, hey, you know, what is technology
in the hands of a psychopath?
Right.
Reminds me of this old, you know,
Charles Bronson movie, Death Wish, you know,
where he goes, "I ain't got a problem with guy,
"I haven't got a problem with guns.
"I got a problem with a lunatic with a gun."
(laughing) Exactly.
That worries me.
That's the point, right.
So technology's helping us, it's great.
Look at the wonderful things, you know.
To be able to fly around the world
and communicate and the cameras
and all of this kind of thing, nothing wrong with it,
but that powerful, wonderful, you know,
creation in the hands of people who are demented.
In a Freudian way, in a Jungian way,
whatever way you wanna talk about it,
who are really fragmented
and from a Christian point of view,
could say they're possessed
or infected with something, a dark sorcery.
You know, in my work, I talk about the difference
between sorcery and magic.
The magician is the one who can walk through all the hell
and walk through all the pain and the suffering
and walk through the fire and still come out centered.
The sorcerer is the one who takes the same journey,
but he gets seduced.
And sadly, the two have been thrown together
in the same pot.
Again, we're back to this whole etymology thing.
We're back to this blame game.
We're back to this, you know, it reminds me
of the old Alexander Pope, you know, lines.
"Drink it or touch it not, the Pierian Spring,
"A little knowledge is a dangerous thing."
That might end up being one of the most profound,
you know, statements ever.
There are actually some more profound,
but that one is high up when you really start
to contemplate it.
Yes. So it seems to me
it helps to jump back a bit
because as I was reading Irish Origins,
you're getting back to, again,
these architects of control and you are going back
into the Atlantean period of time,
even the Lamerian period of time.
And you're saying, from what I understand,
tell me if this is what you're saying,
that these advance civilizations
and the knowledge that they possessed
and that was seeded throughout the countries,
I mean we're talking even into the Americas and so forth,
had its origins from the Atlantean period of time.
Right? But this is also where you're saying
the corruption occurred, right?
Yeah, absolutely--
Can you talk about that a little bit,
that corruption and how did this seeding happen
into Ireland, into Egypt, into some of the Americas as well.
There was very advance knowledge in all these places
and, as you show, common etymology.
The word sources and Gaelic
and Algonquin.
Yeah, that's true.
It's amazing when I saw that chart
that you put up.
Yeah, that research still goes on.
Yeah.
In fact, if people pick up,
'cause you were talking about Atlantis,
just go and pick it out, you know.
It's a little pulp book, I refer to it
by Charles Berlitz, the language expert.
This is from the Berlitz family.
He's the guy who basically started the language books.
He was one of the leading authorities on Atlantis.
And if you go and pick up his book
called Atlantis the Eighth Continent,
he goes into it even into equal depth
into the etymology, showing the connections
between not just American, Ireland,
but all through the world, same cuneiform,
the same, you know, phonograms and ideograms,
right there, it's absolutely provable.
You know, you take this all away to the idea
that they're trying to bury this knowledge now.
Like stones of the great megaliths
or habitually turned around
so that nobody can see the petroglyphs anymore.
Yes.
Because those will show, not only that there's is astro
theology involved, but there's even, you know,
incredible Druidic symbolism there, the ruins.
So these will be defaced.
These will be, you know, marred,
because, again, this knowledge, they don't want,
there's people that don't want this to get out
so they can see these hidden connections.
So what is the Atlantean knowledge
that was passed forward that's springing up now.
I mean, there are a lot of fingers
and a lot of dikes trying to keep things quiet.
It's not working too well anymore.
Well, the main thing that happened in Atlantis
is that
if you look,
the roots of all the idioms
that you see today
do go back before, you know, the official dates.
So when we're talking about, we're really talking about
what's called the Pre Diluvian or pre flood era
and some people like to call it Atlantean Lamerian period
and split hairs over that.
The idea is that as it's been proven now
by the artifacts and relics, there was civilizations
that existed before ours.
Obviously, they're not there anymore.
So what happened to them, you know?
This has become the great question.
I connected, I turned to the legends of the world,
especially the Irish legends as another person
would turn to, you know, a fact book
or an encyclopedia.
In my world, if it's in the Mythen legends,
it's good to go.
You know and people may critique me for that
and think that's crazy.
As far as I'm concerned and I'm very much coming
from the Joseph Campbell school here, you know,
and the Marcia Illiadin and this kind of school.
I'm pretty much it's good to go.
Doesn't mean it's not colored and flowered up
in poetry, poetized.
Doesn't mean that it hasn't been misinterpreted
or potentially can be misinterpreted,
especially Irish legends.
My god, you gotta plow through a lot
of fair folktale, you know, stuff there
to get to the root of what's there,
but when you do, same with the (mumbling) tradition--
And you're seeing the same stories
pop up all over the planet.
Right, this is fundamental.
In indigenous cultures, so...
And I hope we can talk about that more.
That's totally fundamental.
Yes.
Okay, so then something happened back then.
And in the ancient legends they're talking
about couple of concepts.
One is the great war of the gods,
which is one of those, you know,
(mumbling) myths that's everywhere.
The cosmologies, that's something got created got destroyed.
Often, like in the (mumbling) and then many
of the Irish legends, they're indicating
that there's something either alien, physically,
extraterrestrial or spiritually off world.
Spiritually, you know, different.
And it can be difficult to say
which one it is and depending on what myths you're reading,
but Zach (mumbling) is pretty convinced
that when he read the Samarian,
it's clearly extraterrestrial.
I tend to agree with that.
Well, if you look at some of the pictographs
and so forth, it would certainly indicate that.
I think so and same with Eric (mumbling),
you know, I think so that there's a lot of stuff there,
you know, to look into and needs to be take on board.
Other people may go no, no I prefer something else
that's more spiritual, either way, alright.
So the thing is that I looked to those
and then I started to look at this concept.
Then you have the Immanuel Velikovsky, you know,
connection who comes in and says,
and that war of the gods or some
was a metaphor for some cosmological thing
that took place like the interference of a comet.
Which he thought might have been part of Venus.
Others think it's a cometary body called Phaeton,
you see, that caused these calamities.
My interest in all of this is not that.
That's all very interesting.
But, in fact, I would say that even my interest
in ancient history is secondary
to the interest in what's going on today.
I'm not a historian actually, you know.
And in one way, you know,
even though I deal so much with ancient history,
it's not really my concern.
My concern is what's going on now.
And particularly what's going on now
in consciousness.
What is man?
Start here, start with what you've got.
How did the human creature become what he is today?
So is that almost requiring a need
to back engineer the story?
Yes, that's the sum total of everything I do.
That's my interest.
How did the human mind or the ego
come to into being?
You know, nobody's really touched on that.
The ones who have, again, steer away
for whatever reason, you know,
away from the path that I've chosen.
So to continue the point is that I've think
that something happened to the ego of man,
his consciousness, his psychology
that started about 10,000 years ago.
And then I had to decide in my work
whether it was just earth changes and cataclysms,
Is that it, is that all, is that the reason?
It's bad enough, you know,
including cometary celestial upheaval.
Is that it like Velikovsky and people are saying?
Was it as the myths are indicating,
some sort of spiritual war?
See, I'm open to that.
I can imagine that that could've taken place
and I can handle that, I think.
If it did happen, was that it, you know?
Was there a sorcery thing going on?
Is there some--
Could it be multi-dimensional in nature?
Yes, exactly.
Yeah.
Or was it, as they say, a visitation?
A pure, trauma caused by a visitation?
As I started looking at these matters more,
I discovered that it's basically all of them.
And then I tried to put it, you know,
in some sort of order in the Atlantis book
to talk about the-- not that I'm right, again,
you know or anything like that.
I'm just creating a story
based on all these collated facts.
I'm trying to summate, but what am I trying to summate?
I'm trying to summate something that's vast
Mm-hmm.
into 400 pages or a couple of chapters
or what have you, you know what I mean?
So it became that sort of challenge as well.
So the way I presented it was that there was this off world
presence that came here and the trauma
that we're still reeling from was threefold.
First, there was the violation of the planet
by this off world presence.
Then there was the violation of man's biology
through their genetic hybridization transgenic experiments.
Third, there was the trauma that humankind suffered
from the war that erupted between these same gods,
so called gods, the parties.
So man's psyche as we know it
suffered basically three, maybe four
very, very severe traumas
that shattered the ego.
In the same way that in William Blake's
(mumbling) sort of a god-like figure.
Blake describes him falling
from the heavenly world
into the material world and he splits into four parts.
I've always found that very striking
and in a way I can borrow that metaphor
to talk about how man's ego or man's consciousness,
more correctly, shattered into four or five parts,
you see, like this.
And we're still trying to glue them back together.
But wasn't there also a forgetting process
that occurred?
Yeah, the trauma.
There was
vast knowledge from that trauma.
I mean, it's really about forgetting.
The amnesia.
The historical amnesia that so many people
have addressed.
It seems like that's the single largest factor
facing mankind, is the amnesia.
We're just starting to awaken in what's happening.
And just like it's easy to take a very difficult thing
and laugh about it and you'll accept it.
Man still wants to revisit that trauma,
but he does it through The Day After Tomorrow,
Blockbuster movie, right.
Exactly.
Charlton Heston and the Earthquake, you know?
Because there's a remembrance
and a resonance there, right?
Or even what was those preposterous films, you know,
A Million Years B.C., or whatever, you know.
Whatever, the whole smorgasbord of those films
dealing with cataclysm and fighting monsters
and chucking spears at dinosaurs
and you know volcanoes run,
you know, what is all of that?
And The Day the Earth Stood Still.
The Day the Earth Stood Still.
All of the above, all of the above.
If you decode it, if you have what I call
the symbolic literacy, there it is.
You have to break it down into an acceptable form
that has a lot of little bells and whistles
along with it, you know, entertainment factors,
to process it, Highlander.
Yes.
I mean the list is, let's not even get into it
because the list goes on and on and on
of the movies that are pivotal, iconic, what have you.
That deal with this, you know?
Matrix, you know, you can update it
and upgrade it in many different ways,
but the principle remains the same
that man is re-visiting this traumata.
But he's doing it in a way that is a little bit more safe
than handling it directly, you see?
To deal with what his ancestors went through
because that's still too painful.
It's still too recent.
The wound is too important.
Now jump forward again, like I said,
my interest is now.
If that trauma existed,
could it be co-opted by the black lodge?
If they know that man is already
an anxious ridden, fragmented and traumatized individual,
you think they're not gonna make perfect use of that fact?
Absolutely, that's to a large degree
what I feel has happened, is simply capitalized,
seizing the opportunity.
Their ancestors are responsible for the trauma
in the first place and their descendants, again,
biological or ideological are--
And that's an important distinction to make.
They're capitalizing on the continued trauma.
In fact, even when there not enough trauma,
they'll do some rug pulling themselves
as they're doing right now.
Well the economy, oh this and that.
You don't know that this is by design yet?
This is all for the inducement of fear.
Can you beat it into their heads?
This is an multiple.
The wall goes up, now the wall's coming down.
The war's starting, now it's ending.
The economy's great, now it's not.
This president is wonderful, this guy, he's crazy.
When are we gonna realize what's going on here?
Right.
Because they want to keep instilling this anxiety,
this anxiety and until a person has what I call
the psychic immunity and I address this in all the work,
you're going to be punched off all these walls.
Your head will literally be beaten off the walls
of the universe and you will then become
an infected person by this trauma
and you will infect others, your children,
your neighbors, the guys at work.
You know, and they'll infect you
and before you know it, this is what we got.
We got Friday the 13th, part 14.
Here we go, the craziness, the chaos, you see.
And they're loving it.
The guys upstairs are just laughing
themselves silly over this.
How can they wheel out the same game.
You'd think they'd get tired of playing it.
You know, you can only play Monopoly so many times,
but these guys never get tired
because as Sidney Webb said himself,
it's an ever endless game of excitement.
The great game.
The head Fabians have said it's titillating.
Colonel Mandell House is on record
telling you it's wonderful.
And now they're working on the remote controlled creature
'cause the gun to the head, boot in the face,
eh, they've done that.
And they can still do it to some, you know,
rebellious Irish rogues, you know.
When you say remote controlled creature,
are you talking about with the use and interface
of technology?
Yeah, surely, surely and even more subtle.
Yeah, let's talk about that for a minute.
Well--
So what are some of the new games?
Okay, we've done the boot to the head as you say.
What are the more subtle games that we can't see?
For instance, take the kind of propaganda machinery,
right, the media,
which is a form of the war on consciousness,
a very important aspect of the war on consciousness.
Critical.
Yeah, and let's take a classic example
of how they're showing the cyborg creature,
the organic computer.
Half man or half woman cyborg individual.
They've been doing this for years,
but it's amping up now even in the commercials.
Let's take how they're portraying the global village
and you just can't wait for it, you know.
They are (mumbling) chips,
the surveillance, you know, to keep you safe.
On the other hand, they're showing you
the most frightening, you know, three headed monsters
rattling the gates of your security
to get you warmed up for this.
Right.
Or they may even present, like for instance,
one thing I noticed a lot is the way
that the male is presented
in not only commercials, the father figure, the male.
This is a constantly manipulatable image,
as they all are, the portrayal of children,
the portrayal of women,
but just study the one thing,
the portrayal of the male architype.
First they're over exaggerating it
with the Rambo, Arnold Schwarzenegger,
you know raw hide tough guy, you know,
over sort of inflated Conan the Barbarian type.
You know? Is that because they want you to have one
sort of tweaked, skewed understanding of it
'cause they're ready with a second one,
the impotent, dweeby, dorky.
Mm-hmm, powerless.
Powerless individual, yeah.
They're gonna, you know, watch what one hand is doing
as Archibald Wavell, the general said,
'cause they got something with the other hand coming in.
So you are, you're lookin' over here and thinkin'
oh that's a nice (mumbling) and identify with that.
You know, it's Clint, he's great.
Bring out the magnum and blow them all away.
Yeah, but what's happening
is who's coming over here with another one?
So this is going on and on and on.
That's one form of control--
Keeps you in a state of total confusion
as to your own personal identity--
This is what it's about, fragment your own identity,
mess up the stereotypes and the archetypes
so nobody knows if they're coming or going.
We don't mind a little movement in that area.
But to completely subvert things, you see,
and they way that they're doing dramatically
is obviously off the wall.
It's very dangerous.
That's use through technology.
And then we have the more obvious ones,
which other people have dealt with excellently
about the, you know, the actual surveillance systems
and the F-I-R-D chips
and all of the scanning things that are going on.
Police amping up and all of that kind of thing
and satellites and all the rest of it.
You know, I don't get in to too much
of the individual stuff there.
I'm again looking at it in broad pictures
because I guess nobody can understand
any of the work that I do without understanding
that it's about examining the war on consciousness.
Every other idiom that you see
every other permutation that this great war takes
is to me satellite.
It is a symptom
of a more subtle war on the psyche,
on consciousness because if they can go
to the root, as they are, and if they can manipulate
then monopolize the trauma, the original trauma
that started in ancient times,
then you've got something.
Then you have the puppet, the potential,
you know, and all the way up to smiling depressive
of a global utopia, which is what's happening now.
And they're selling you that through Microsoft.
They're selling it through a lot of these Fabian left-wing
groups that are promising you such wonders
and global diversity and harmony.
They're selling it at your pharmacy.
That's right, all over, all the symbolism
and people are buying into it
and all of this kind of thing.
And we're still seeing the same solar cult symbolism
that Akhenaten was using, you know, how many years ago?
Thousands of years ago, 1400 B.C.
Nothing is changed as I said,
when you're dealing with an architecture, nothing's changed.
When you're dealing with the architects, well, that's just
replaceable test tubes in the experiment.
But the building is still there,
the laboratory is one and the same.
Its still got Akhenaten's picture over the door, you know.
It's still the same temple.
Let's talk about Akhenaten.
What happened there?
Okay, let's take that, if you go back
and you keep tracing the symbolism
that we're using in the modern age
and you start going through all the things
that we've been talking about
about understanding who it is to blame.
Don't blame the purists.
Blame the corruptors and you really, really,
stick with that truth.
Then an interesting map opens up
and it helps because you start finding out
that there were these East to West connections.
Remember when we talked about that?
Exacerbated by the fact that it was made easy
because there was land bridges.
That's not Michael Tsarion saying that.
That's Ulf Erlingsson saying that.
You can't get farther up the geological totem pole
than these guys.
They been (mumbling) photographs of the Sri Lanka one
from India to Sri Lanka from satellite.
Face it, they existed.
They existed between Scandinavian England
and between Ireland and England.
Those countries did not look like they did,
you know, in ancient times, in fact,
none of the globe looked like it did
not even in recent times.
Recently in Ireland, they found sunken,
you now, coast lines.
Just now, just within the last six or nine months
they found sunken coast lines that defy explanation.
That they look like they went down in a catastrophe.
So this East to West movement is fundamental
to understanding what happened in Egypt.
Because once you understand that the elements
of civilization did originate from the West
and moved East and South
because of the age of cataclysm
and because of these land bridges,
slowly into your vision comes the idea
that wait a minute then,
these places are look very remote today.
For instances, Scotland, The Hebrides,
you know what I mean?
And Egypt or anywhere, Greece, Crete,
may not have been as isolated
as they appear now.
What happens if the Mediterranean was not as big
as it was today, you know etcetera, etcetera.
If you go down that road you start to see
just take on the board that the map
didn't look like what it did today.
The Hungary didn't have those borders.
France didn't have those borders.
These were all modern constructions.
And unfortunately, people who has been educated
within the last 20 years, they look at that
and they think that's been there for thousands of years.
They have no idea that the world looked totally different.
They got to get their heads around that alone.
Africa use to have tropical, you know, rainforests.
You know, crocodiles--
Egypt, absolutely.
All over the Libyan desert.
Turkey is still considered geologically
a Western culture, a Western in all it's botany
and it's, you know, archeology.
And racially, the races that lived there
were basically caucasian races, you see.
Okay, but let's go continue with that thread
of this Akhenaten.
First step is to realize that Egypt had connections
with the West.
So when individuals were finding cocaine,
in the tombs of mummies, when they're finding
images of elephants in South America
and parrot feathers in Egypt again.
All of this, tobacco that they're finding.
Why is that so difficult to realize
that there was these connections?
So, let's just add to the mix
of possibility that it was easy to move
people and things around by air
in addition to a donkey and a cart.
With land bridges.
No doubt about it.
I have no personal problem taking that on.
There's so many antidotes even coming
out of the Vedic traditions
that there was aerial, (mumbling) and all that--
But let's say for a moment--
However they could move--
Okay, but even if we don't, say it just was done
on horseback or boat,
why is it still too difficult to realize, you know,
with the land bridges that it was even walkable.
The ancient legends say it was
and as I said, that's usually good enough for me.
I let science do the catch up.
And they're doing it.
You know, Professor Erlingsson's book
is called Atlantis in Ireland.
You know, it's also called Atlantis
from a geographical perspective or something like that.
Okay, once you take on board those two facts,
just those two facts,
that the land bridges existed
and that the elements moved from the West to the East,
you have now revised history,
whether you know it or not.
So, yes you have.
You have just turned a lot of things upside down.
You made possible
what didn't look possible prior
and again, you're talking about the Diluvian age.
So you're saying there was an already existing
very refined high culture as exemplified
through a lot of the Druidic practices, for example.
And again, Druid means (mumbling).
It means keeper of truth.
Keeper of truth.
So that you had a very high culture.
From what I'm understanding,
you're saying that culture had migrated into Egypt.
In fact, at one point--
Because of the cataclysms.
So see how the Atlantis book
connects with the Irish Origins?
Absolutely.
Even different titles, they're basically
one continuous study.
I would only say that the Irish Origins jump starts
what died with Comyns Beaumont.
When Comyns Beaumont was doing
the West to East thing,
it lapsed after his time.
I'm the first person to kick start it.
Pick it back up again, yeah.
I'm not the expert,
but I'm hoping that we can kick start the subject
so people can go on.
And by the way, people are contributing
to my websites, it is happening.
We're getting incredible support here.
And more adults coming around
from all around the world in this.
Next month, we'll post part two of our conversation
with Michael, in which he tells why he feels
the Egyptian Pharaoh, Akhenaten
and his followers exported
what we now know as the world's architects of control.
Meanwhile, you can pick up a copy of Irish Origins
by going to Michael's website at
www.taroscopes.com
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(gentle music)